Now one thing you can notice is the app.
If I go to a different screen.
Let's say the admin section and then it change something on the server which of course is kind of unrealistic.
But on the other hand if this is an app where multiple users start adding products of course the user
can edit a product save that to a server.
And we are on a different page and therefore we don't have the latest state because we have no life
push updating here so I'll edit this here.
I removed the estimate from Mark in the description and in my app here if I go back and of course this
is our product here.
But if it were not it click here.
I still see the old description reason for that is that the data wasn't read fetch and you might think
that it actually should be read fetched.
If I go back to the products overview screen because in there we have tons of fact which should run
whenever this component gets rendered.
Right.
If we go to the user here.
Here it is.
There we have does A and should run whenever the component gets rendered and it does.
But the problem is the way react navigation our navigation library works is such that our different
screens which we go to with the draw are actually all capped in memory so to say they're not recreate
a just because we don't see them and then we come back.
Instead they're created once when the app launches basically or when we first visit them but they're
not recreated thereafter.
It's a different thing for a stack navigation if I go to the card.
This is loaded.
If a Leave It is destroyed if I come back it's recreate it but not for destroyer navigation and that's
just how it works.
So how can we refresh does whenever we reach this page.
The answer is simple you can set up a listener to navigation events and we can do that with a no use
effect call
here.
And in this function we can use props navigation at listener there we can set up a listener to D will
focus event alternatives and at hatched you find a link to the official box with a full description.
Alternatives are did focus after the page has been fully focused will focus will fact will fire when
you transition begins and we also have will blur when you're about to leave it and did learn once or
done but here I'm interested in will focus and then here in the callback function which fires when does
event occurs there we can reach out to load products
alternatively of course we just point at load products like this now dependencies of this effect are
load products and although our navigation property ad listener prop there but I will avoid it here to
what unnecessary reruns of this effect if something else about our navigation prop changes for example
if we set new parents to communicate with our head or navigation options which we do in some components
then we could enter the infinite loop here.
This is why only at this even though it would be cleaner to add all dependencies we have noted cool
thing about use factors that you can alter return something there which we haven't done thus far and
that is a cleanup function.
So it's a function that has to be a function which runs whenever does a fact is about rerun or when
this component is destroyed and there we can clean up that listener which of course should do for Dad
because simply stored to the subscription so will focus sub like this.
And then here we use will focus sub and can simply call remove here and this will get rid of the subscription
once this component is basically on mounted or whenever it will rerun because load products rebuilds
which shouldn't really happen.
Now we have that listener and now if we remove use them if we use effect here because we always will
load our products with this listener.
Nothing happens actually reason for data is simple.
This will set up this listener which will reload our data but it doesn't fire initially because this
will only be attached after the component rendered the first time.
This is after will focus fired though.
So to also fetch the products initially we need this extra use effect call.
But with that we fetch it initially and we'll also read fetch it.
And to prove that let me add a console log statement here in load products where I say load products
like this and if for now when does app loads we see load products here.
And if I now leave this screen and go to admin.
This was on Android here by the way to second block.
So this was the one log from the iPhone.
So now I left a screen if I come back to products.
You saw the spinner too and does all the reprints.
So now we do this whenever we revisit this page and this is a pattern where you might want to consider
when working with react navigation to make sure you do something no matter if that's fetching data or
something else whenever it is screen re-enters.